Jim Carrey: Speech at Maharishi University of Management, 2014 
Several of the speeches on this list are commencement speeches – and for good reason. Graduating students are moving onto the next stage of life, which is a big step, full of uncertainty.  
 
A commencement speech offers the perfect opportunity for guidance, wise words – and Jim Carrey delivered it in spades during his speech at Maharishi University of Management in 2014. 
 
As you might expect from Carrey, he never misses an opportunity to crack a joke – but there are plenty of soft, sentimental moments, too. He encourages the graduating class not to fear what’s out there, but to be bold and “ask the universe” for what they dream of.  
 
Whatever your dreams are, Carrey implores, you should follow them – because even if you fail, it’s better than not trying at all. 

Simon Sinek: How great leaders inspire action 
Simon Sinek’s TED Talk is one of the most popular ever, with over 62,000,000 views since it was released in 2009.  
 
In the talk, he explains his simple, yet powerful, model for inspirational leadership, focused on the Golden Circle which comprises three questions: “why?”, “what?” and “how?”. 
 
The talk is engaging, with plenty of real-life stories included to help make abstract concepts more concrete. But as well as being a motivational talk that’s a must-watch for business leaders, it’s notable for how it’s changed the face of business. 
 
Whereas in the past, business leaders often focused on what they did, the emphasis for many today is on the ‘why’. Starting with why they do what they do paves the path to success for customers, employees and overall business success. 

Brené Brown: The power of vulnerability 
Being vulnerable is sometimes seen as a weakness. But Brené Brown argued in her 2010 TED Talk that shame about being vulnerable holds us back from experiencing true connections with others – and from finding joy and creativity. 
 
By telling personal anecdotes and speaking directly to the audience, Brown makes the audience feel like part of a community. The speech – and the ideas presented – not only resonated with the audience of that particular TED Talk, but with the millions of viewers who’ve watched it since and embraced having the courage to be vulnerable. 

Sylvester Stallone: ‘Beat you to your knees’ speech 
Fictional characters can deliver motivational speeches as well as any real-life person, and this one delivered by Sylvester Stallone in the 2006 movie Rocky Balboa is one of the best examples out there. 
 
Rocky delivers a powerful message to his son, Robert, about the challenges he’ll face in life. Robert feels as though he’s overshadowed by his father’s famous name and accomplishments, while working in a job he doesn’t find fulfilling.  
 
But Rocky wants him to understand that the limitations he faces in life are self-imposed. He wants to remind him of the values that have shaped his own journey – hard work, determination, resilience and taking responsibility for his own life. 
 
Rocky hopes to inspire his son to embrace his own potential and take control of his future. Delivered with passion and gusto, the speech inspires not just Robert, but the film’s viewers as well. 